So in the last lecture we translated
our theme. Let's now see how to translate a child theme.
So we're actually also not responsible for creating child themes but it would be nice if you include a
sample child theme with your theme and mention also how to translate it and so on. So let's see how to
do it.
So let's add our child theme here.
So we had in functions.php. We used some filters like this one and it had a string and it had a text domain.
So let's say our text domain is called
let's say, "mytheme-child".
So what this text should appear when we have a page with no posts.
Right?
So that's maybe, let's quickly create a new category. And let's make this category empty with no posts.
So I think this is Category in German.
So let's view this category. And we also in the child theme we had this content-none file.
So let's remove this in order to see the text.
So now we have "No Posts".
And it has this text domain.
So what we have to do is, we have to go to functions.php in the child theme. And we're actually now inside
of it.
And let's go to functions.php in our parent theme. Let's copy this.
And let's paste it somewhere here.
And all we have to do is instead of calling load_theme_textdomain(), we call a function called load_child_theme
load_child_theme_textdomain().
And also we will change this text domain to our child themes text domain, right?
But now we don't have any in our child theme, we don't have any POT files. And we also don't have gulp
tasks to generate one.
So what we can do is, we can actually, let's just create first a languages folder.
And let's try to generate a POT file for the child theme in an other way, other than the gulp
task.
So let's do it using the Poedit.
So let's go to File in the Poedit menu.
And they actually have a nice feature called WordPress Translation where you will just add your theme folder
and they will scan all the strings in it and generate a POT file.
But this is actually a premium feature you have to pay for it.
You have to have the full version of the Poedit. So you can do that if you like or you can just create a gulp
task like we did for the parent team.
So let's try this out and let's add our theme folder.
So the child theme.
And let's Create a POT file.
And now this file will have all our strings.
So let's create a new translation from this POT file. But let's save our POT file first in the languages folder
of the child theme. So let's save. And let's create a new German translation.
And for "No Post" let's use one of these.
And save. And now we're saving a PO and MO files.
So let's go back now and inside the languages we should have POT and PO and MO files. So let's take
a look now what the website. And also we have used this function name before. So I'll just call it
anything, it is not important
now.
And looks like we still have some mistake.
All right. So
my bad.
Remember when we were discussing child themes and we mentioned that if you want to reference the child
themes folder, you should use get_stylesheet_directory() instead of get_template_directly(). get_template_directly()
will always reference the parent theme.
So let's use get_stylesheet_directory().
And now we have our translation.
And if you go back to the home page we will also still have the translation for the parent theme.
So I think that's it for translations.
There is also one thing you can do but I'll leave this to you.
It will be quite similar which is translating plugins.
So if you'd like give it a shot and let me know if you have any problems.
It will be quite similar.
We'll just use different functions to load the text domain.
And also I think you will have to call your translation files a bit differently.
So take a look at it if you like and let me know if you have any questions.